Devops
------
Devops is not a new tool/technology in the market.
It is a new culture or process to develop,release and maintence of software application/project/product whith higher quality in very faster way.
We can achieve by using automation tools.
For any software product, two groups of engineers will work
  1)Development Group
  2)Operations group/Non Development group/Administration Group.
Again this classification can be divided into small sets of grops.


1)Development Groups:
----------------------
The People who are involving in

1.Planning
2.Coding
3.Build 
4.Testing

are considerd as development group.

eg:-
Business Analyst(BA)
System Analyst(SA)
Design Architech(DA)
Developers/coders
Build Engineers
Test Engineeers/QA

2)Operation Group:
------------------
The People who are involving in

1.Release
2.Deployment
3.Operations
4.Monitoring

are considerd as Operations Grop.

eg:-
Release Engineers
Configuration Engineer
System Administrator
Database Administrator
Network Administrator etc...

are considerd as Operations Group

Devops is a cobination of Development & Operatopns.

The main objective of devops is to implement between development and operation teams.

To understand the new devops culture, we have to aware already existing SDLC Models.

SDLC --> Software Development Life cycle

1.Waterfall Model
2.Prototype Mode;
3.Increment/Iterative Model
4.Spiral MOdel
5.RAD Model
6.Big-Bang Model
7.Fish Model
8. V Model
9.Agile Model

10)Devops Model

1) Water fall Model:
--------------------
Requirement Gathering / Collection
  Requirement Analysis
    Design
      Coding
        Testing
          Release
            Maintance

Also known as Linear Sequencial Model.

Advantages:
-----------
1.It is very simple & easy to implement.
2.Best suitable if the requirements are fixd.
3.Best suitable for small projects

Limitations:
-----------
1.Developemt time will be incress
2.Cost of development will be incress
3.It won't accept requirement changes in middle
4.Client Saisfaction very low
5.Bug fixing very costly bcoz we cannot identify bugs in early stages of lifecycle
6.Not at all suitable if requirements keep on changing.
7.Not suitable for large projections.

9. Agile Model
--------------
This was the most frequiently used and hot cake model in software development.
Agile Model is divided into multiple sub models.

1.Rational Unify Process(RUP)
2.Adaptive Software Development(ASD)
3.Feature Driven Development(FDD)
4.Crystal Clear
5.Dynamic Software Development Method(DSDM)
6.Extream Programming(XP)
7.SCRUM MOdel
etc.

Among all these modles Scrum model is most popular and frequently used model.

Agile ==> SPeed
SCRUM is Agile based model
It is not linear sequancial model.
it is iterative model.Total software product will be developed increment by increment and each increment is called a sprint.

Continuous delivery
Continuous Feedback
Requirement changes in the middle 
Client Satisfaction is very high
Less Development time
Less Development cost

SCRUM is derived from Rugby Game.
In every sprint 7 to 9 members will work
each sprint will be deliverd from one week to 3 weeks time.

Why we should go for Devops????
--------------------------------
Deveops and agile both are different models.

Similarities:
-------------
1.Both are software development methodologies.
2.Both models concentrating on rapid software development with team collaoration.

Differences:
------------
1.The difference will come once development of the project completed.

Agile model talks about only development but not operations.
Devops model talks about complete product life cycle like developement and operations.

2.In Agile model, separate people are responsible for development,testing,deployment etc. etc

But in devops ,the devops engineer is reposible for everything like development to oprations and operations to development.

Devops generalist

3.Agile model wont force to use automation tools.
But devops model is completely based on automation.

4.Agile is always giving highest priorty for speed.
Devops giving the priority for both quailty and speed.

5.IN agile, client is responsible to give the feedback for the sprint.
But in devops, immediate feedback is avilable from monitoring tools.







            





